---
layout: page
title: About The Theoretical Minimum
subtitle: A Weekly Technological Newspaper Focused on Quantum Computing
---

The evolution of human technology has always been characterized by its ability to outsource and improve upon an action done by humans. The development of mechanical machines outsourced the action of moving or manipulating physical objects, thus allowing humanity to do things that one human couldn’t do such as lift or manipulate objects many times the size of a human. The development of the computer allowed humans to store and manipulate information on a much larger scale than one person ever could, ushering in the information age and bringing about significant change in the lives of the average person. However, as the world around us increasingly requires more and more computational power, and we push our current technologies to the limits of their capacity, a new technology must be developed to handle the outsourcing of our most difficult computational questions. This is where quantum computers come in. By harnessing the most fundamental and quirky laws of nature, quantum mechanics, quantum computers are able to perform computations in a much more efficient and therefore faster way than a classical computer could. These new devices are still being developed however when present will usher in a new age of computation. Those who understand these powerful devices will hold great power indeed. 

Georgia Tech students are some of the most technically competent problem solvers in the nation. However, they often lack the breadth of knowledge needed to keep up with certain new technological developments, such as quantum computing, that will eventually become important to understand. Quantum computing is poised to fundamentally change the way in which we do computation; it will revolutionize the way in which many important processes are carried out, from drug development to optimization. This monthly periodical, The Theoretical Minimum, seeks to remedy the widespread ignorance among Tech students with regard to this novel technology. Each issue of the periodical will contain a variety of quantum computing-related articles, such as recent news, foundational knowledge, history and past developments, applications, and limitations as well as an interactive section. The interactive section will contain interesting problems and exercises (e.g. crosswords, quizzes) designed to reinforce learning or show examples of real-world quantum computing. 
     
The Theoretical Minimum specializes in simplicity. Though other similar newspapers and research articles exist, they often offer abstract explanations of topics that are already difficult to understand by nature. This periodical aims to strike a balance by offering a technical but accessible explanation of important topics pertaining to quantum computing, thus allowing regular readers to increase their knowledge in this important domain. In addition to the textual component of this paper, sections containing interesting images/graphs related to quantum computing will be regularly included, thus allowing readers to visualize and understand the multidisciplinary nature and the applications of the topic at hand. Lastly, profile sections including the profile of someone working within the quantum computing industry will also be included regularly, in hopes that readers will become familiar with prominent individuals working within the industry. 
     
Though quantum computing is a technical topic, it should not be kept shrouded in an aura of complexity. Quantum savvy people everywhere must simplify the complexities of quantum computing, for only then can it be universally understood and accepted. The Theoretical Minimum aims to do just that by teaching Tech students the basics of quantum computing while keeping them up-to-date with the rapidly evolving field. Some may go on to further educate themselves; some may not. In the end, however, quantum computing will be one step closer to being demystified. 
